SPATIAL REASONING PROPOSITIONS FROM ACE ATTORNEY DATASET
===========================================================

This file contains all the propositions (logical rules/principles) extracted from the spatial reasoning turns in the Ace Attorney dataset. These are the general logical principles that can be applied to spatial reasoning scenarios.

Prop 1: If something is blocked from view, it cannot be seen.

Prop 2: If one wants to take pictures of a meteor shower, the camera should be facing the sky.

Prop 3: If a person is viewing a location on the right from the leftt edge, a person behind that location would be to the right of the location.

Prop 4: If a location is on the right-most edge of a room, there cannot be a person to the right of that location.

Prop 5: If someone is stabbed to the left chest, her left pocket would be stabbed too.

Prop 6: If a pocket is stabbed, a letter inside cannot be safely tucked away in it.

Prop 7: If blood from a location comes from another location, the blood cannot be used to prove the first location is the crime scene.

Prop 8: If an assailent is in a location just before they assult someone, the assault happens in the same place.

Prop 9: If an assault happens in the storeroom, it does not happen in the viewing platform.

Prop 10: If there is a secret floor accessible by the room, there is more than one way to leave the roof.

Prop 11: If dirt got inside a container that contains an object, the object must be dirty.

Prop 12: If a person A goes to a location where person B is at, person B would have seen person A pass through.

Prop 13: If a person is in the hallway, someone passing by would have seen them.

Prop 14: An English car has the driver's seat on the right.

Prop 15: If someone hunches over a box, they are likely trying to pick it up.

Prop 16: If someone is trying to pick up a box, their head would be directly above it.

Prop 17: One cannot buy hotel property before coming to the hotel.

Prop 18: If a vase fell, it will make whatever it falls onto wet.

Prop 19: If a vase fell onto an open guitar case, it would have fallin onto the inside of the case, not the outside.

Prop 20: If someone is on top of something, that thing should not be in a distance.

Prop 21: If someone is accused of killing a person, they should not recall innocuous activities on that same day in a testimony.

Prop 22: If someone's belongings were found at a place, they were at that place.

Prop 23: If someone is not at the place where a crime happens, they have an alibi.

Prop 24: If someone is holding something in their right hand, their free hand would be their left hand.

Prop 25: If the handle of cup is to the right of the lip stain, the user of the cup used their right hand.

Prop 26: If someone's eardrum was ruptured, they wouldn't be able to hear with that ear.

Prop 27: If someone cannot hear with an ear, they will not wear an earpiece in that ear.

Prop 28: If someones wears two items on the same side and one is on the left, the other is also on the left.

Prop 29: If A sees the B in a mirror and sees B is wearing something on the left, B is actually wearing it on the right.

Prop 30: If the view is obstructed between two places, then likely one cannot see one from the other.

Prop 31: If a scarf falls and gets muddy, then the location is muddy.

Prop 32: If a coat falls on a muddy location, it should be muddy.

Prop 33: If a photo is taken from the south, the person on the right facing left is on the east facing west.

Prop 34: If a bridge is broken to the east, one cannot run towards to the east.

Prop 35: If a person is facing west and turns around to run, they would run towards the east.

Prop 36: If the view is obstructed between two places, one cannot see one place from the other.

Prop 37: If someone falls off the bridge, they fall onto whatever is under the bridge.

Prop 38: If someone falls on a rock bed, they will not have lived.

Prop 39: If two people are meeting on a bridge with one end broken, the person that arrived first would be at the broken end.

Prop 40: If a bridge is struck by lightning, it may catch fire.

Prop 41: If someone leaves at 10:45 for a 5-minute trip, they arrive at around 11:00.

Prop 42: If someone participates in an event in location A around 11:00, they cannot be in location B.

Prop 43: If the victim had her back to the stone lantern, the stab would be in the stomach, not the back.

Prop 44: If a painting is obscured, one cannot tell what clothing the subject is wearing.

Prop 45: If one knows about a unique item in a location, they must have been to the location before.

Prop 46: If one side has 4 red, small chips and 1 gray, big chip, and the other side has 2 red, small chips and 9 gray, big chips, there are 6 red chips and 10 gray chips in total.

Prop 47: If the red chip is worth 100 points and the gray chip is worth 1,000 points, then the total points would be 6 * 100 + 10 * 1,000 = 10,600 points, which is not equal to 7,000 points in total.

Prop 48: If it is not the case that the red chip is worth 100 points and the gray chip is worth 1,000 points, then the red chip must be worth 1,000 points and the gray chip must be worth 100 points.

Prop 49: If the red chip is worth 1,000 points and the gray chip is worth 100 points, then the near side has 4 * 1,000 + 1 * 100 = 4,100 points which is more than the far side that has 2 * 1,000 + 9 * 100 = 2,900 points.

Prop 50: If one side has more points than the other, then that side is winning.

Prop 51: If the defendant is on the near side and the near side is winning, then the defendant is winning.

Prop 52: If a person is sitting on a side where there are two aces, that person does not have three aces.

Prop 53: If a person goes to the first floor, they must not be in the basement.

Prop 54: If a person is not in the location of the murder, another person who witnessed the murder must have let them out of their sight.

Prop 55: If a person is shot in the forehead, they cannot be shot to death in the right temple.

Prop 56: If a person is outside the room, they cannot see the inner side of the wall where the door is installed

Prop 57: If a location was blocked off by rubble, a person could not have been there.

Prop 58: If one person is fleeing from another, they would not have fed in the same direction.

Prop 59: If there is a tall screen separating two locations, one cannot see one from another.

Prop 60: If a path is blocked by fire, then it is impossible to take that path.

Prop 61: If a person fired from the middle of a room to the east, the bullet should hit the east wall, not the south wall.

Prop 62: If someone fell on one side of the room, they should not have been on the other side.

Prop 63: If right hand fingerprints are found on an object, then the object have been help in the right hand, not the left hand.

Prop 64: If someone remembers running into another person at a time, that person is at that location at that time.

Prop 65: If someone is at a location at a time, they cannot be at another location at that time.

Prop 66: If shutters are shut, the window cannot be seen through.

Prop 67: If the view is blocked, one cannot see into the blocked location.

Prop 68: If someone has to read with glasses, the glasses will be at the same place where they read.

Prop 69: If an object is at the desk, it cannot be at the bookshelves.

Prop 70: If a person is hit from behind and falls over, he would have been falling face down, not face up.

Prop 71: If the witness don't have a wound from the back, then he cannot be shot from back.

Prop 72: If there is a place that could hide a person, then the person from the top of the omnibus could overlook the possibility that this person is the actual culprit.

Prop 73: If two person are waving guns at each other, they are likely facing each other.

Prop 74: If two person are facing each other, then it is unlikely that one can shot the back of the other.

Prop 75: If the victim's body was moved, the crime scene must be different from the body discovery scene.

Prop 76: If a person rides a vehicle to do something, the vehicle cannot be parked in a garage the whole time.

Prop 77: If a bullet enters from the abdomen and exits from the shoulder, the bullet travels upwards.

Prop 78: If a bullet travels upwards, the shooter must be on lower ground, not higher.

Prop 79: If a person is inside a room where the door handle is jammed by an item, the person could remove the item and thus not thinks the door is locked.

Prop 80: If a a person is shot from a few yards away, they are not shot at close range.

Prop 81: If a person goes to two new locations, they must have left the original location.

Prop 82: If a person goes to the next room over, they must have seen the person in that next room. 